#### Name: Samer Khamisi

## T-SQL HW01

**1. How does the book describe the difference between imperative and declaritive languages?**

* Imperative- Used by languages other than SQL (Such as C#), requires you to specify tp the computer how to get what you want (Data), not what you want.
* Declarative- Used by SQL, requires you to speciy to the computer what you want to get
		
**2. List three categories of command statements in SQL.**

* Data Definition Language (DDL)
* Data Manipulation Language (DML)
* Data Control Language (DCL)

**3. Give an informal definition of database as used in the expression "relational database management system." 
Give an informal definition of database as used in the expression "Human Resources database."**

* RDBMS- Refers to a database management system (software) that is language independent, meaning it is not constrained to SQL.	
* HRD-  Refers to the data within the database

**4. The book states that, "[t]he goal of the relational model is to enable consistent representation of data with minimal or no redundancy and without sacrificing completeness..." 
Briefly state your undestanding of minimal or no redundancy and completeness. Why do you think that these values are important?**

* Ensures data integrity and consistency. Ensures no duplication errors. Since it is based on a strong mathematical foundation, it offers certainty when a design is flawed. 

**5. What is the difference between two-valued logic, three-valued-logic, and four-valued-logic? How does SQL implement three-valued predicate logic?**

* Two-Valued Logic- A predicate is either true or false, follows mathematical law "the law of excluded middle"
* Three-Valued Logic- Takes into account missing values, yielding three logical values from a predicate; true, false, or unknown (NULL). 
* Four-Valued Logic- Similar to three-valued logic, except it divides unknown values into two categories; missing but applicable and missing but inapplicable

**6. How does SQL enforce entity integrity? What is entity integrity?**

* Entity integrity ensures that there are no duplicate records and the primary key that identifies each table is unique. It is enforced through a constraint known as candidate keys

**7. How does SQL enforce referential integrity? What is referential integrity?**

* Referential integrity ensures that if a value in a table is refrenced, that the value actually exists. It is enforced through a constraint know as Foreign keys. 

**8. What is a relation as defined in the textbook? A one word answer to this question is sufficient.**

* Set or Relation or Table

**9. Relational databases are based on three mathematical concepts: set theory, predicate logic, and relational algebra.**

**(a) Please give your brief understanding of set theory as described in the text. What is set?**

* A single entity, a collection of objects as opposed to the individual objects that make up the collection. 
* A single entity, any collection unordered distinct objects
			
**(b) Please give your brief understanding of predicate logic as described in the text. What is predicate logic?**

* A propositional logic where the truth value of the logic is evaluated by the predicate, true or false.
			
**(c) Please give your brief understanding of relational algebra as described in the text. What is selection? What is projection?**

* Operations on relations result in a relation (a join between two relations). Selection is a horizonal concept, where you choose rows. Projection is a vertical concept, where you choose columns.

**10. Is this table in first normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?**
	
* 1 create table faculty (
* 2 faceID int primary key,
* 3 faceName text,
* 4 faceCreds text);	
* No, because facCreds has multiple values, no row can contain more than one value. To turn into a 1NF, you must split the facCreds into atomic (indivisible) entities using a composite primary key or use two tables.
		

**11. Is this table in second normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?**

* 1 create table pets (
* 2 ownerID int primary key,
* 3 petID int primary key,
* 4 ownerFirstName text,
* 5 ownerLastName text,
* 6 petName text,
* 7 petType text);	
* No, because the non-key attribute petType is dependent on part of the primary key, in this case "petID". To turn into 2NF, you have to split the table into two tables, one with "ownerID" and the other with composite key "petID" and "OwnerID" as a foreign key.
		
**12. Is this table in third normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?**

* 1 create table friends (
* 2 firendId int primary key,
* 3 friendName text,
* 4 friendStreet text,
* 5 friendCity text,
* 6 friend State text,
* 7 friendZip text);	
* No, because there is transistive dependency in the data. "City" and "State" should be split into a new table, with the primary key set to "Zip". 
		
**13. List the components of a four-part object name.**

* schema name, object name, database name, instance name

**14. What is the difference between declarative data integrity and procedural data integrity?**

* Declarative Data Integrity- Data integrity enforced as part of the model--namely, as part of the table definitions.
* Procedural Data Integrity- Data integrity enforced with code--such as with stored procedures or triggers.
	