#### Name: Samer Khamisi

## T-SQL HW04

**1. In your own words, what is a subquery?**

* A query within a query or nesting queries

**2. In your own words, what is a self contained subquery?**

* Queries that do not depend on the outer query that they occupy, it can run by itself

**3. In your own words, what is a correlated subquery?**

* Depends on the tables or values of the outer query that it occupies 

**4. Give an example of a subquery that returns a single value. When would you use this kind of subquery?**

* 1 SELECT orderid, orderdate, empid, custid
* 2 FROM Sales.Orders
* 3 WHERE orderid = (SELECT MAX(O.orderid)
* 4 FROM Sales.Orders AS O);

* Joins return rows, whereas subqueries return a single value

**5. Give an example of a subquery that returns multiple values. When would you use this kind of subquery?**

* 1 SELECT orderid
* 2 FROM Sales.Orders
* 3 WHERE empid IN
* 4 (SELECT E.empid
* 5 FROM HR.Employees AS E
* 6 WHERE E.lastname LIKE N'D%');
* When you need to return multiple values instead of one

**6. Give an example of a subquery that returns table values. When would you use this kind of subquery?**

* 1 SELECT custid, orderid, orderdate, empid
* 2 FROM Sales.Orders AS O1
* 3 WHERE orderid =
* 4 (SELECT MAX(O2.orderid)
* 5 FROM Sales.Orders AS O2
* 6 WHERE O2.custid = O1.custid);
* A way of reading every row in a table and comparing values in each row against related data. 
* It is used whenever a subquery must return a different result or set of results for each candidate 
row considered by the main query

**7. What does the exists predicate do? Give an example.**

* Returns a Boolean value 'true' or 'false' for subqueries

**8. What happens if we use the not operator before a predicate? Give an example.**

* Reverses the truth value

**9. When you use exists or not exists with respect to a row in a database, does it return two or three
values? Explain your answer.**

* Exists uses only two-valued logic, 'true' or 'false'. There is not instance where it is unknown if a query returns a result or not. 

**10. How would you use a subquery to calculate aggregates? For example, you want to calculate yearly
sales of a product, and you also want to keep a running sum of total sales. Explain how you would use
a subquery to do this.**

* You query one instance of the view (call it O1) to return for each year the current year and quantity.
* You use a correlated subquery against a second instance of the view (call it O2) to calculate the
running-total quantity.
* 1 SELECT orderyear, qty,
* 2 (SELECT SUM(O2.qty)
* 3 FROM Sales.OrderTotalsByYear AS O2
* 4 WHERE O2.orderyear <= O1.orderyear) AS runqty
* 5 FROM Sales.OrderTotalsByYear AS O1
* 6 ORDER BY orderyear;