#### Name: Samer Khamisi

## T-SQL HW05

**1. What is a table expression? Can you give a technical definition of a table expression?**

* A table expression is a named query expression that represents a valid relational table.

**2. In what SQL clause are derived tables (table valued subqueries) located?**

* Defined in the FROM clause of an outer query. Their scope of existence is the outer query.

**3. Why can you refer to column aliases in an outer query that you defined in an inner table valued
subquery?**

* The sub query is executed first, then the outer query

**4. What SQL key word defines a common table expression?**

* WITH

**5. When using common table expressions, can a subsequent derived table use a table alias declared in a
preceding table expression?**

* Yes

**6. Can a main query refer to a previously defined common table expression by multiple aliases?**

* Yes

**7. In SQL, is a view a durable object?**

* Yes, the query that creates the view is saved 

**8. In a view, what does WITH CHECK OPTION do? Why is this important?**

* Prevents modifications that conflict with the view’s filter. 
* It is important because it ensures you are only returning the data that you specified

**9. In a view, what does SCHEMABINDING do? Why is this important?**

* It binds the schema of referenced objects and columns to the schema of the referencing object, 
doesn't allow you to change the underlying tables unless you change the view

**10. What is a table valued function?**

* A named block of code that returns a table value

**11. What does the APPLY operator do?**

* Allow you to refer to one side of a table versus a join that has no order

**12. What are the two forms of the APPLY operator? Give an example of each.**

* CROSS APPLY
* 1 SELECT C.custid, A.orderid, A.orderdate
* 2 FROM Sales.Customers AS C
* 3 CROSS APPLY
* 4 (SELECT TOP (3) orderid, empid, orderdate, requireddate
* 5 FROM Sales.Orders AS O
* 6 WHERE O.custid = C.custid
* 7 ORDER BY orderdate DESC, orderid DESC) AS A;
* OUTER APPLY
* 1 SELECT C.custid, A.orderid, A.orderdate
* 2 FROM Sales.Customers AS C
* 3 OUTER APPLY
* 4 (SELECT TOP (3) orderid, empid, orderdate, requireddate
* 5 FROM Sales.Orders AS O
* 6 WHERE O.custid = C.custid
* 7 ORDER BY orderdate DESC, orderid DESC) AS A;