#### Name: Samer Khamisi

## T-SQL HW06

**1. What does a set operator do**

* A set operator compares complete rows between the results of the two input queries involved

**2. What are the general requirements of a set operator**

* Because a set operator expects multisets as inputs, the two queries involved cannot have ORDER BY clauses. 
* You can optionally add an ORDER BY clause to the result of the operator. Each table must have matching columns.

**3. What is a Venn Diagram? This is not in the book.**

* A Venn diagram uses overlapping circles or other shapes to illustrate the logical relationships between two or 
more sets of items.

**4. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION operator. What does it do?**

* The UNION operator unifies the results of two input queries. If a row appears in any of the input sets,
it will appear in the result of the UNION operator.

**5. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION ALL operator. What does it do?**

* The UNION ALL operator unifies the two input query results without attempting to remove duplicates
from the result.

**6. Draw a Venn Diagram of the INTERSECT operator. What does it do?**

* The INTERSECT operator returns only the rows that are common to the results of the two input queries.

**7. If SQL Server supported the INTERSECT ALL operator, what would it do?**

* INTERSECT ALL returns the number of duplicate rows matching the lower of the
counts in both input multisets.

**8. Draw a Venn Diagram of the EXCEPT operator. What does it do?**

* The EXCEPT operator implements set differences. It operates on the results of two input queries and
returns rows that appear in the first input but not the second.

**9. If SQL Server supported the EXCEPT ALL operator, what would it do?**

* The EXCEPT ALL operator is similar to the EXCEPT operator, but it also takes into account the number of
occurrences of each row.

**10. What is the precedence of the set operators?**

* Intersect
* Union or EXCEPT
* ITERSECT is always evaluated first, then UNION or EXCEPT in the order in which they appear, ALL does not change 
the evaluation order.

**11. The symmetric difference of two sets A and B is all elements in A that are also not in A and B, and all
elements of B that are also not in A and B. For example, if set A consisted of all integers between 1 and
100 that are divisible by 2, and set B consisted of all integers between 1 and 100 that are divisible by
3, the symmetric difference of A and B would include all integers in A and B except integers divisible
by both 2 and 3, e.g., 6, 12, 18, etc. Write a SQL query that computes the symmetric difference of two
tables A and B.**

* 1 (A union B)
* 2 EXCEPT
* 3 (A INTERSECT B)
* or 
* 1 (A EXCEPT B)
* 2 UNION
* 3 (B EXCEPT A)

