#### Name: Samer Khamisi

## T-SQL HW07

**1. What is a window function?**

* A window function is a function that, for each row, computes a scalar result value based on a calculation
against a subset of the rows from the underlying query.
* Input that results in an output

**2. What does PARTITION do?**

* Restricts the window to the subset of rows that have the same values in the partitioning 
columns as in the current row.

**3. What does ORDER BY do?**

* The window-order clause (ORDER BY) defines ordering, window ordering supports a frame specification.

**4. What does ROWS BETWEEN do?**

* Filters a frame, or a subset, of rows from the window partition between the two specified delimiters.

**5. What is a ranking window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.**

* You use ranking window functions to rank each row with respect to others in the window.

**6. What is an offset window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.**

* You use offset window functions to return an element from a row that is at a certain offset from the
current row or at the beginning or end of a window frame.

**7. What do LEAD and LAG DO**

* The LAG and LEAD functions support window partitions and window order clauses.
* The LAG function looks before the current row
* LEAD function looks ahead

**8. What do FIRST VALUE and LAST VALUE do?**

* You use the FIRST_VALUE and LAST_VALUE functions to return an element from the first and last
rows in the window frame, respectively.

**9. What is an aggregate window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.**

* You use aggregate window functions to aggregate the rows in the defined window.

**10. What is a pivot table and what does it do?**

* Pivoting data involves rotating data from a state of rows to a state of columns, possibly aggregating
values along the way.

**11. In mathematical theory, what is a power set? How does this definition of power set relate to grouping
sets?**

* In mathematics, the power set (or powerset) of a set S is the set of all subsets of S, including the 
empty set and S itself.
* A grouping set is a set of expressions you group the data by in a grouped query (a query with a
GROUP BY clause). The reason for using the term “set” here is that there’s no significance to the order in
which you specify the expressions in the GROUP BY clause.

**12. What is a bit array? How can you implement a bit array to represent a set of 
ags? How does the GROUPING ID() function implement a bit array?**

* A bit array (also known as bit map, bit set, bit string, or bit vector) is an array data structure that 
compactly stores bits. It can be used to implement a simple set data structure. 

**13. Read the documentation on the UNIX/Linux chmod command. How would interpret this command:
chmod 755 myscript.sql?**

* 755 means to read and execute
* myscript.sql is you sql file you want to run